This is Marius, I will share here the thoughts on the articles for this week.
McGrath 2019: an article I found interesting because I'm an avid podcast listener, but it never occurred to me that podcasts could be employed to mark the ever-changing surroundings.
Risam: the article is a stark example of how white culture can be oppressive, and there was a point that struck me: first of all, the fact that the author felt to have been "socialized" in not being able to code. This is poignant, as it marks the fact that oppression does not need a direct or specific act, it simply needs a conniving environment.
Corbett 2016: accessibility was the topic of our discussion in the last lesson, and I was glad to witness how things were progressing in the field of academic dissertations. I had a direct experience with this topic, since I was unable (and still am) unable to access a PhD dissertation on the internet that I believed was relevant for my research. I also think I will make good use of the portals NDLTD and OATD.
Tagliaferri: I am acquainted with the vernacular expansion from reading Alison Cornish's book on the same subject, and the parallel with technology is indeed interesting. From the opportunities point of view, the fact that X-ray microtomography scans and computational algorithms were being used in the humanities field made me think of a recent news, where technology has been used to bring to light 2 new pages in Anne Frank's diary.
Schroeder: I found that the article was a compelling history of the Public Humanities field. There were several key points I found remarkable: the need to configure public humanities as the reception of humanities (then culture?) by anyone but academics, plus the focus on reflection, dialogue and engagement. I believe a point had been mistaken/overlooked: the assumption that humanists, unlike STEMs, "serve a moral and social rather than individual or commercial purpose"; in fact humanists can easily do both things, as it is wrong to believe, as the majority of Italian politicians still do, that "con la cultura non si mangia". Statistics demonstrate how there's a direct proportion between the level of education/reading index and the financial well-being of a nation's citizens. I am also curious about the consideration that "the public humanities are not so much a field of study but a great experiment".
Zweibel-Smyth 2017 is a nice example of a tool that facilitates the workflow. It is stated that maybe sometimes one needs just “a friendly entrance”, which I believe it’s an expression that sums it all (there’s quite the analogy with other contemporary topics here, like what in Italy is called “il blocco della libreria”).
In the Gil-Ortega article the focus is on how to “orizontalize” what has been shaping as a mono-lingual field, DH, and we can rethink the relation between the center and the periphery of the discipline. Actually, the idea of “whisperer attendees” at conferences and workshops could be brought in other disciplines as well.
Bergenmar-Leppanen 2017: I second the article pointing out what Ted Underwood says about the need for quantitative methods applied to literary studies. I have often used a quantitative approach to analyze the spread of certain kinds of books when I studied the production of publishing houses in the XVIII and XIX century. The reference to Adeline Koh's take on archives should be expanded, as I know for a fact there are many misconceptions about archives enven among humanities students. Bode's citation on historical context underlines the need to embrace cultural history as an essential complement to literary critics. I found striking as well the difference between "hypercanon", "counter-canon" and "shadow canon", and I will most likely use this theory in my studies.
Alpert-Abrams: I found this work a bit technical, but I definitely understand why it's necessary to expand on this topic. I had actually a personal experience with OCR: during my thesis I found that many digitized works available on OpenLibrary or Google Books were searchable on their sites, yet when downloaded the option to search was absent. I was wondering if this was related to the OCR these sites were using.
Hall 2019: as the article highlights, there is still much to do in order to surpass the conception of H versus DH, and the idea that only one of the two could survive. The multiple digital methods listed as meaningful for text analysis are compelling, especially navigability of textual archives (E.g. the National Archives of France in Paris). I found interesting the connection with Italo Calvino and as a recipient of a diploma in Archival Studies at the Archivio Segreto Vaticano I think the author merges Calvino's idea and the concept of archives in a very effective and efficient way.
Marchese 2013: I found interesting this exploration of Medieval information visualization as a tool of clarification, since it reminded me my studies on the use of manuscripts and texts from that era (the so called “ruota da libri”, the progenitor of the hypertext).
Lee-Yang-Inchoco-Jones-Satyanarayan 2021: I did not expect such a pondered and precise article on such a “contemporary” topic; this is actually commendable, as it demonstrates how research can very well keep up with everyday challenges. I will definitely remember the concept of “counter-visualization” when confronted by data from non-reliable sources. I also took note on the integration between quantitative and qualitative approach, and appreciated the “militant” scope of the article. What’s unsettling, is that from the data the authors present and the resulting discussion does not emerge a clear way to prevent the disinformation and misguided use of graphical visualization (this was obviously way beyond the objectives of the articles, though it is true the authors point out how certain approaches seem to be less effective than expected).
Grandjean 2016: Though the use of graphical visualization results in charts and clusters that are without doubt of great impact, I believe the article fails to properly respond to the crucial aspect of its objective: the geographical and linguistic spread of the 2500 Twitter users that constitute the “DH community, the interpretation of which is not sufficiently analyzed.
Coker-Ozment 2019: I feel that starting a contribution citing Robert Darnton is a very sly move, as he’s one of the most influent cultural historians and I studied numerous of his works on the French publishing system. The project around the presence of Women in Book History Bibliography is quite actual, and addresses present issues, moreover is an interesting declination of a discipline (Textual Bibliography) that’s relatively young, having been born in the first decades of the last century. It’s reassuring to learn that a project like this has encountered support and stirred the support of the community.
Buzzoni: This article highlights the need for a standard when dealing with the electronic edition of a text. The advantage in having a digital edition rests on the potentially infinite space of the medium, allowing to address the text in a truly diachronic, historical, and critical approach (as every critical edition is first and foremost an interpretation). I found compelling the distinction between multimediality and multimodality, and the evidences on how the hypertext structure enhances philological analysis. I addition to this, I agree with the need of a shared protocol on this topic.
Savonick 2017: The article starts with a bold statement (which I second), that “language is a source of power”, and the author demonstrates that’s not just some kind of abstract declaration. The idea of introducing undergrads to the sometimes “obscure” world of academic research is not a new one, but the application has all the elements to be almost groundbreaking. The take on the collaboration between students, sometimes paralyzed and tainted by the inability to properly present and explain the scope of the team work, is totally new to me and a refreshing hypothesis. I would have been more interested in knowing how the instructor implemented the digital aspect of the project, but maybe it was beyond the scope of the article, which was more focused on the pedagogical side of the matter.
Huet-Alteri-Taylor 2021: I believe this contribution is extremely related with the contemporary debate on CRT and the right-wing push to ban it not only from the school system but from the academic one as well. The emphasis on collaboration between libraries, archives and museums is paramount for the success of an ambitious project as the dLOC. Based on my studies, I also found interesting the historical reconstruction of the actions undertaken to shape the Caribbean initiative as it is now.